Preface
We are happy to present the papers to be discussed at the 2007 JCDL Workshop
on “Foundations of Digital Libraries”. This workshop is the first one dedicated
to this very fascinating theme, that has gained increasing interest in recent years,
although attention to digital libraries (DLs) dates from many years ago.
It is not surprising that DL researchers feel the need of foundations for the
Digital Libraries field. The DL universe, in fact, has continued to grow in the last
fifteen years and has become a very complex one, producing very heterogeneous
models and systems. Now DL researchers are aware that foundations are urgent
to avoid that the results of their work are difficult to confront and even harder
to combine and reuse to produce enhanced outcomes.
The papers that will be presented for discussion in this workshop aim to
contribute to laying the foundations for digital libraries as a whole, as well as
continuing the work on the definition of a Reference Model for Digital Libraries
launched by the EU DELOS Network of Excellence on Digital Libraries. The
common goal is to produce a reference framework wherein new results can be in-
tegrated, compared, and discussed. With this view, the workshop gives particular
attention to the modeling of three of the main aspects characterizing the Digital
Library universe: Content, Architecture, and Quality, in order to contribute to
the consolidation of these key concepts. In each of the sections dedicated to these
arguments, a number of papers are offered, beginning with those dedicated to
the motivations for and approaches to DL foundational work.
Besides researchers, other important communities are interested in the essence
of the DL fields, i.e., library users and library providers. We have no doubt that
the results of this workshop also will give these communities a better understand-
ing of the DL universe and the opportunity of reasoning about this universe and
communicating with a common and well founded concept vocabulary.
June 2007 Donatella Castelli and Edward A. Fox
