Some Preliminary Ideas Towards
a Theory of Digital Preservation
Giorgos Flouris
ISTI-CNR
Via Giuseppe Moruzzi, 1
56124, Pisa PI Toscana, Italy
flouris@isti.cnr.it
Carlo Meghini
ISTI-CNR
Via Giuseppe Moruzzi, 1
56124, Pisa PI Toscana, Italy
meghini@isti.cnr.it
ABSTRACT
The problem of digital preservation is one of the most chal-
lenging research problems faced by the community of digital
libraries today, receiving growing interest by researchers and
practitioners alike. One of the major gaps in the related re-
search is the lack of a general agreement on a formal model
to describe the problem or on a formal description of the
required properties of a good solution to the problem. This
work aims to fill this gap by presenting a number of ideas
towards a formal, mathematical, logic-based description of
preservation as a scientific discipline, to the end of deriving
a methodology resting on solid theoretical grounds. We will
present and justify a number of desired properties of such
a formalism and introduce a model that handles the static
aspects of the problem; some ideas related to the dynamics
of preservation will be presented as well.
1. INTRODUCTION
The rapid obsolescence of large volumes of digital (es-
pecially “born-digital”) data is one of the most challenging
problems faced by modern archivists. This problem is com-
monly referred to as the problem of digital preservation [10,
15] and deals with the problem of retaining the meaning of
a digital object (file, image, database, document, etc) un-
altered for an evolving community of readers. Such readers
are usually referred to as the Designated Community (DC)
of the digital object [3, 12].
The problem of digital preservation is not fully understood
to date; even though there is a number of ongoing efforts
on the practical and methodological aspects of preservation
(e.g., [5, 13, 14]), there are very few efforts in the direction
of a formal description of the problem [4]. The introduction
of such a formal description would in many ways contribute
to the research field of digital preservation. For example,
a formal theory could allow the development (and proof)
of impossibility and existential results: given the inherent
difficulties associated with the problem, we intuitively ex-
pect some limitations on what types of digital objects can
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy otherwise, to
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific
permission and/or a fee.
First International Workshop on “Digital Libraries Foundations” Vancou-
ver, British Columbia, Canada, June 23, 2007
.
be preserved; we also expect certain types of DC evolution
to be such that no preservation is possible. In addition, a
formal theory could allow the grounding of existing (and fu-
ture) preservation methods upon a common formalism for
comparison, and could result to a set of formal desirable
properties for evaluating such methodologies [8].
Motivated by the above considerations, we propose certain
definitions which are part of a larger ongoing effort towards
the development of a formal, mathematical, logic-based de-
scription of preservation as a scientific discipline, to the end
of deriving a methodology resting on solid grounds.
We begin with a general discussion on digital preservation,
addressing some general properties of the problem (section
2). This discussion includes some thoughts on the relation-
ship of our ideas with existing standards, such as OAIS [3];
establishing such a relationship is necessary, as it would
eventually allow the connection of this work with existing
efforts (such as the CASPAR project [2]). Following that,
we introduce a formalism that handles the static aspects of
the problem (section 3) and present some thoughts related
to the dynamic aspects of the problem (section 4).
2. DISCUSSION ON PRESERVATION
2.1 Types of Preservation
As already mentioned, digital preservation refers to the
problem of retaining the meaning of a digital object unal-
tered for an evolving DC. Let us suppose that the digital
object under question is an image, say I , created by a par-
ticular individual (called the producer [12]), say P ; more-
over, consider a particular member of the DC (called the
consumer [12]), say C.
The ultimate goal of preservation is to ensure that C un-
derstands I despite the many changes that can intervene as
time passes by. Understanding in this context implies ac-
cessing, of course, but access alone is (usually) not enough.
Below, we sketch the general steps required for C to un-
derstand I ; notice that most of these steps require the use
of some artificial agent (software program, hardware device
etc) to apply the relevant transformation:
1. The original input is the physical storage (on some
form of long-term storage media) of the sequence of
bits which encodes the image I in some format.
2. By reading these bits from the storage media, C ob-
tains a sequence of bit values representing the image.
3. By rendering these bits, C obtains an image that is
Foundations of Digital Libraries 1
