some form of light that C’s eyes can take in. Rendering
presupposes some knowledge on the image format.
4. By interpreting the image, C figures out its meaning,
i.e., the worlds in which the portrayed scene can occur.
The fundamental divide in the above discussion is the sep-
aration between rendering the object, the image in our case,
and understanding the object. In other words, we regard the
above process as the interpretation of the rendering of the
bit stream. Preservation implies the ability to perform this
process at any time. This leads to our informal definition of
preservation as: the ability to perform the interpretation of
the rendering of a bit stream at any time. Notice that this
involves three steps: producing the bit stream, rendering the
produced bit stream and understanding the rendered object.
This results to a decomposition of the preservation task into
sub-tasks, each corresponding to one preservation type.
The first type, called bit preservation, refers to the abil-
ity to produce a particular sequence of bits from a storage
media at any time; this can be achieved using error correc-
tion techniques, backups, RAID or mirrored disks, media
refreshment and other technologies.
The second type, called data preservation or object preser-
vation, refers to the ability to render the produced bit stream
and produce a meaningful output from it at any time. This
is the focus of most current approaches to the problem.
The third type, called information preservation, refers to
the ability to understand the rendered object at any time,
i.e., to be able to understand its content by understanding
the terms, concepts or other information that appears in it,
by placing it in its correct context etc. This is the tough-
est type of preservation, and is often ignored by existing
preservation approaches.
We argue that a complete preservation system should han-
dle all three preservation types. Notice that information
preservation applies also for physical objects, whereas the
other preservation types only make sense for the realm of
digital objects. In what follows, we will not consider bit
preservation; for some relevant discussion, refer, for exam-
ple, to [17]. Our work focuses on information preservation,
even though most of the approaches presented here can be
easily amended to apply for data preservation as well.
2.2 Preservation in Time and Space
Normally, the process of digital preservation applies when
the passage of time renders some digital object incompre-
hensible by a particular DC. However, we can view preser-
vation as the more general process of allowing an object to
be understood by some target DC. The ability of the DC
to understand an object may be hindered by several factors,
including, but not limited to, the passage of time; the in-
telligibility of a certain digital object may also depend, for
example, on a number of software or hardware modules, or
on some background knowledge regarding some particular
domain, which may or may not be available to the target
DC. This gives rise to two “preservation dimensions”: the
space dimension and the time dimension.
In the space dimension, the producer needs to formulate
the created digital object is such a manner so that the vari-
ous DCs that he is addressing his data for (which, in general,
may have different background knowledge, rendering abili-
ties, hardware, software etc) can understand it.
The time dimension represents the evolution of the knowl-
edge of the DC in time. Such evolution may be, e.g., due to
some new discovery, in which case the changes are easy to
capture, well-documented and noticeable. However, this is
not always the case, as it is possible that the evolution could
be due to slight changes in knowledge, jargon, terminology
etc, which usually go by unnoticed, but accumulate through
time. Thus, the knowledge of the DC should be checked
at regular intervals, and, if changes are found, an explicit
knowledge shift should be performed to guarantee preser-
vation. This shift consists in the specification of the new
knowledge of the DC (i.e., the currently used knowledge)
and the change that resulted in this shift.
In fact, both “preservation dimensions” can be essentially
reduced to the following problem: given a digital object,
carrying a particular meaning, format, etc, as well as a tar-
get DC, with some given rendering abilities, software and
hardware modules, background knowledge etc, determine
the changes required upon the original digital object so that
the DC can understand the meaning intended by the object’s
original producer.
Notice that this formulation makes no reference to the
time element, so it avoids the problem of not knowing what
a future DC will be like. This way, the preservation prob-
lem becomes in many respects similar to a communication
problem between two agents and its recursive character is
eliminated: we only need to devise a way through which
an agent can adequately amend a digital object so as to be
understandable by another agent. Once we achieve this, by
repeating this process once per agent (i.e., DC), the problem
is solved in the space dimension. Moreover, by repeating this
process once per agent (i.e., DC) evolution, the DC at time
t can play the role of the producer, so as the next-generation
DC (at time t + 1) will be able to correctly understand the
meaning of the digital object, as it was understood by the
DC at time t (which is hopefully identical to the meaning
intended by the producer at time 0).
2.3 Questions and Answers
In order for preservation to be possible, it is generally
necessary for the producer to include in the digital object a
certain amount of information on how the object should be
interpreted, as well as, possibly, a certain amount of redun-
dancy that will help consumers decipher its meaning. One
of the major problems that need to be resolved for preser-
vation is to determine what this information is and how it
should be formally represented.
A related issue is which part of the digital object is worth
preserving. For example, if the digital object is a text docu-
ment, then it is composed of various information, including
its content, format, fonts, pagination information, attached
images or other objects, etc; depending on the context, we
may be interested in only a part of this information. Thus,
we argue that it is not usually necessary (or possible) to
preserve the entire information carried by a digital object;
instead, we could isolate and preserve the object’s most“use-
ful” or “important” information.
To formalize the above requirements, we will consider that
a digital object is a set of questions (or properties) whose
answers (or property values) will help the consumer under-
stand the (interesting part of the) meaning of the object.
Notice that this viewpoint is sufficiently general, as it allows
us to include in the preserved digital object some, or all,
Foundations of Digital Libraries 2
