of the information in the original object, as well as to in-
clude additional, external to the original object, associated
information that may be useful for preservation purposes.
2.4 Relevant Questions and the OAIS Model
Determining the information (i.e., questions) worth pre-
serving for the object at hand is not an easy task; it depends
on the object type, its content, legal issues as well as on the
producer’s and consumer’s needs, among other things. A
great aid in this task is provided by preservation models,
such as the OAIS standard [3]. The role of such a model in
this respect is to provide a methodological framework and
a “best practices” approach towards the aim of determining
the most important information related to a digital object.
As an illustration, the categories of information that OAIS
prescribes are the Content Information (which is in turn di-
vided into Content Data and Representation Information)
and the Preservation Description Information (which is in
turn divided into Provenance, Reference, Context and Fix-
ity); the Representation Information is further divided into
Structural Information and Semantic Information (see [3]
for details). Each of those types of information could be
modeled as questions about the object.
3. PRESERVATION STATICS
3.1 Required Model Properties
Before performing any preservation activity, we need to
formalize a way to represent a digital object as a set of
questions and answers. These should be expressed in some
language, let’s call it L, which will formally determine the
syntactical and semantical rules that can be used for formu-
lating such questions and answers.
We will define L to be a formal language of a logical na-
ture. There are various arguments in favor of this choice.
First, L has to be formal, like logics are, otherwise no scien-
tific theory of preservation can be developed; second, it must
be able to express knowledge, and formal logic has been de-
veloped for exactly this purpose; third, it must be suitable
to capture question-answering, and the inference relation of
mathematical logic allows precisely that; and, finally, logic
is a very well studied field of science, offering a very rich set
of results from which to draw.
There is an overwhelming array of mathematical logics we
could use; at this stage, we do not embrace any of them, be-
cause this is not necessary for developing a theory of preser-
vation. The only assumptions made about L is that it allows
us to state queries by talking about otherwise unspecified in-
dividuals and that it comes with a formal semantics and an
associated inference relation |=.
Informally, L can be viewed as the language which must
be “spoken” (understood) by someone in order to be able
to understand the (questions and answers related to the)
digital object under question. In the process of “reading”
a digital object (say a text document), we are often able to
draw conclusions that are not direct consequences of the doc-
ument’s content, but are partly based on some background
or commonsense knowledge. Such background knowledge is
necessary for the correct understanding of a digital object,
so L should be coupled with some domain knowledge, rep-
resented by a logical theory T , which is expressed in terms
of the language L. Following intuition, T will be assumed
finite and consistent.
Notice that a digital object is nothing more than a bunch
of symbols unless coupled with some formal structure that
provides the semantics to these symbols. This formal struc-
ture is the pair 〈L, T 〉 which allows us to understand the
“meaning” of a digital object; this pair will be called the
Underlying Community Knowledge (UCK) of the digital ob-
ject and each digital object will be considered to be asso-
ciated to a single UCK, which provides the framework for
understanding it.
Notice that the content of the UCK depends on the con-
text. For example, if we are interested in data preservation,
the UCK would be a formal description of the underlying
format of the digital object; if we are interested in informa-
tion preservation, the UCK would be a formal description of
how the rendered object should be interpreted. Moreover,
both the producer and the consumer have a UCK of their
own; if this UCK is the same, they can both understand the
digital object, and no preservation is necessary. Problems
emerge when the UCKs of the producer and the consumer
are different, in which case a digital object that carries a
particular meaning for the producer may carry a totally dif-
ferent meaning for the consumer, or, more likely, be totally
unreadable; this is where preservation comes into play.
As mentioned above, L allows the statement of queries;
such queries will be used to formalize questions. Similarly,
the individuals being the answers to such queries will be
used to formalize the answers to such questions. Answers
to questions should normally encode genuine information
about the digital object, in the sense that this information
is not implicit in the underlying theory T ; however, we can
imagine situations where this is not necessarily the case. On
the other hand, answers cannot contradict our knowledge
(i.e., T ). Finally, all answers are assumed to be given by a
knowledgeable person, which could be either the producer
himself or some other person who can understand the digital
object well enough to provide information on it.
3.2 Formal Embodiment of our Requirements
We now have all the ingredients we need to fulfill our
goal of determining a formal model for the statics of digital
preservation. As mentioned above, such a model should con-
tain a UCK (consisting of a formal language, L and a logical
theory T from L), as well as a digital object (consisting of
a set of queries from L, say Q, and a set of answers to each
such query, formalized using a function, say ans).
More formally, we define theUnderlying Community Knowl-
edge (or UCK) as a pair U = 〈L, T〉, where:
• L is a logical language, or, more formally, a tuple
L = 〈LL ,V,VI ,P,PC , |=〉, consisting of the following
elements:
– The set of logical symbols of the language, de-
noted by LL.
– The vocabulary V, which is a set of symbols.
– A set VI , which is the subset of V that contains
the individuals of the language, defined as all the
elements of the vocabulary V that can be pro-
duced as answers to queries (VI ⊆ V).
– A set of well-formed formulas P , which is a non-
empty set containing all the formulas that are al-
lowed in L.
Foundations of Digital Libraries 3
